Consider three levels. At the top level is "Why." At the middle level is "What." At the bottom level is "How." Any individual view is always at the middle level. The middle level is a list of actions. The actions consist of an infinitive verb form without "to" and usually a compliment (e.g. "bake a cake"). The upper level is the originating intention (e.g. "bring a cake to Sunday's church pot-luck lunch"). The lower level is the constituent optional or mandatory steps (e.g. "find the recipe," "shop for missing ingredients such as eggs and flower," and "set aside time and space"). This is what I would call a current perspective.

One use of the application is to switch perspectives. If you want to move up in the perspective chain, then the "why" becomes a "what." For example the perspective "To bring a cake to Sunday's church pot-luck, I bake a cake." becomes "To participate in church activities, I bring a cake to Sunday's pot-luck." Inversely, do move down the chain, the "how" becomes a "what." The resulting cake example would be "To bake a cake I shop for the missing ingredients." 

Of course, every perspective primarily lists the "hows" as well. Do [do 'how' steps] to [do 'what' action] in order to [achieve 'why' objective]. Any todo list is focused on the 'what,' with the 'how's being the list items and the 'why's being the enclosing folders. All "why"s, "what"s and "how"s are all formulated the same way with an infinitive verb form with "to" and usually a compliment, which allows the focus or perspective switch to work seamlessly. 

Why do I do What and How do I do What? It could be considered a meta-cognition exercise in a simple game-like context. The rules of this game are only one Why per What, but many Hows per What, with each How being specific that What. It is a "tree" form. 

You will find attached a diagrammed document describing my thoughts on the application along with screenshots of my actual data. I call it the "coloring book" because it is mainly black-and-white line drawings, almost a comic book. I hope the attached PDF document is understandable.

